you're walking on a desolate plain
nothing but dry cracked ground under
your feet no plants
no animals just tall mountains off in
the distance
hard to believe this barren valley was
once teeming with life
it used to be the bottom of a lake as
you're walking in the quiet solitude
you notice a trail it looks as if
someone was dragging a heavy bag for
hundreds of feet
intrigued you follow the trap it leads
you straight
then gently curves to one side or the
other
sometimes even making zigzags very odd
indeed
finally you see the source of the trail
but it only adds more mystery
it's a huge stone lying alone in the
middle of the plane
who would want to push a rock that far
the answer
is no one the stone moved by itself
it's a phenomenon called sailing stones
and it's observed in several places in
the u.s
in winter the entire valley and huge
rocks
some weighing as much as a horse are
iced over
this drastically reduces the friction
between the stone and the ground
when the wind blows the stone begins to
slide
once the ice melts the track remains on
the sand
and there sits a lonely traveler rock
our next stop is canada's abraham lake
it's frozen now
from a distance it looks like the
surface is covered in patches of snow
but as you get closer and step on the
ice
you see the white patches are frozen
bubbles inside the lake looks like
thousands of frozen jellyfish but don't
even try to break the ice to investigate
further
these bubbles are made of methane a
highly flammable gas
when any organic matter like leaves
grass
insects enters the lake it becomes food
for bacteria that release
methane as a byproduct that methane
turns into tens of thousands of frozen
disks
as soon as it comes into contact with
frozen water as the ice melts
the bubbles burst and sizzle you can
also see this phenomenon on some shores
of the arctic ocean
there the methane bubbles can be as big
as hot air balloons
it's a beautiful sight but very
dangerous
our journey is getting even colder we're
in antarctica
here the amount of bright white light
can blind you
against an endless landscape of snow and
ice you notice a red
dot in the distance you go to it and
realize that it's a red waterfall about
five stories high
it looks as if the glacier is bleeding
this isn't a scene from a horror movie
but a totally natural phenomenon about
two million years ago
a salty pond got trapped under a glacier
the water stopped receiving light heat
and oxygen
then a thin trickle of water began to
seep through the eyes
the contact of such salt water with
oxygen turned it a bright
rustic red color there's only one such
stream on this planet
time to warm up we're off to indonesia
on the island of java
we come to a magnificent volcano
overgrown with grass and trees
the volcano seems dormant but smoke is
plumbing out of it
we climb to the top and instead of
boiling lava
we find a beautiful bright turquoise
light an
oasis hid within the crater of a volcano
but don't even think about taking a dip
that water is more like acid
sulfur gases get into the lake from
within the volcano
the lake which contains a lot of metals
inside
becomes this beautiful color when it
comes in contact with sulfur
when the hot liquid sulfur catches fire
the lake
glows electric blue at night it looks as
if the volcano is spewing bright blue
lava
from blue to bubble gum pink we're now
at lake hillier in australia
it's not the only one of its kind in the
world but one thing does make it unique
when you scoop the water up in a glass
it remains pink
scientists still aren't sure why the
lake is this color
the most popular theory is salt water
algae and pink bacteria
they create such pigments as a byproduct
of using the sun for energy
oh and this lake though super salty is
perfectly safe to swim in
but it's closed to tourists unless you
have special permission
like for researchers the public can take
a helicopter tour
over it though now we find ourselves in
the nam
desert in southern africa you notice a
strange phenomenon stretching hundreds
of miles
these unusual round patches in the sand
have been dubbed
fairy circles their diameters can be
anywhere from six to fifty feet across
one theory says the circles are made by
sand termites
they dig holes to store water and eat
all the roots of plants
so that nothing grows on the patches
other versions claim that it's
all the fault of radiation or a toxic
plant that affects
everything around hey not all lightning
strikes from the sky
there's a very rare phenomenon called a
dirty thunderstorm
during this event lightning is created
not by clouds in the sky
but a volcano super ejima is one of the
most famous active volcanoes in the
world
almost every day it erupts and releases
black clouds into the air
lightning forms inside these clouds
during any storm
ice crystals collide with each other and
create electricity
this is how ordinary lightning appears
during a dirty thunderstorm
particles of volcanic ash collide
instead of ice crystals
our journey continues on the water we
get on a boat and sail away from the
shore
it doesn't matter where we are because
this phenomenon happens
all over the world the sea is crystal
clear and calm
there's no wind but what's that
you hear a loud hum within seconds a
massive wave 45 feet high appears from
the calm sea surface
luckily your boat manages to stay afloat
and the wave disappears as suddenly as
it appeared
you've just survived an attack from a
rogue wave
some scientists believe they appear when
the surface sea current collides with a
strong headwind
others say it's born from the collision
of warm and cold currents
but the most interesting theory is that
waves are formed by something called
kinetic vampirism according to this
version
under certain natural conditions waves
acquire the ability to exchange kinetic
energy
and among all the waves there will be
one the vampire
it absorbs and collects energy from all
the others and then
releases it in one blow this explains
the impact force
and its sudden disappearance our next
stop is the atakuma desert in northern
chile
it's one of the driest places on earth
usually getting less than a half an inch
of rain a year
but every five to seven years flowers
randomly bloom here
it's connected with the el nino
phenomenon where warm ocean temperatures
create more precipitation on land
then the yellow sands of the atacama get
colored purple
white green and pink blooms from over
200 unique flower species
but strangely enough the desert won't
bloom if it gets
too much rain back to australia
we arrive at the town of wagga wagga in
new south wales
it's may winter starts next month here
but the temperature is comfortably cool
the grass is still green it's bright and
sunny
in the distance you see white fields
covered in snow
but as you get closer you realize that's
not snow at all
it's a blanket of spider webs and this
is a completely natural phenomenon
it's something a lot of spider species
do called ballooning
they'll crawl to a high up place say a
tree or a telephone pole
and release a stream of silk the wind
catches that silk
and the spiders take flight if enough of
them do it at once
as in millions you get a mass spider
migration
and a scene that looks like something
from your worst nightmare
when this spider rain ends the land is
covered in webs
fields trees fences everything around
it's totally harmless to people though
pretty inconvenient
well good luck sleeping tonight